[Music]
i'm in a weird place right now because i
played a bullied kid on national
television you know 20 million people a
week watched me get pushed into lockers
and and throwing on floors and you know
called
called a called queer called all
these negative things and i experienced
all that uh myself in in in real life
and uh i really like i i let people know
that that was you know one of the
reasons why they're
maybe connecting to my performance so
much was because it was coming from such
a real place and i let people know that
i was i was bullied horribly when i when
i was a kid i was bullied so badly in
middle school that my mom actually took
me out of school and started
homeschooling me just to because because
the harassment got so severe
um but i'm out of this weird place right
now where i feel like
i'm so not a victim anymore that that i
kind of i know maybe that's my ego i
don't know i think i think i get i get
tired of being associated with with
someone who who
is bullied because i i don't allow that
to happen anymore at all i'm proud of
kind of where i'm at at now because
because the minute i see someone who
tries to take advantage of me or or or
is isn't kind i i have the uh the option
to walk away now which i didn't i didn't
when i was a kid
[Music]
hey everyone welcome to impact theory
today's guest is a multi-hyphenate
creator best known for his star making
turn on the smash hit television series
glee for 121 episodes across six seasons
he played kurt hummel the openly gay
teenager with the unbelievably beautiful
voice it ended up being the role of a
lifetime but the combination of having
grown up in a very conservative family
from a small town outside of fresno
california and getting cast fresh out of
high school at the age of just 18 the
idea of taking the role actually
terrified him but take it he did and
millions of people tuned in every week
to watch him and his fellow cast members
perform along the way he earned not only
a massive following of arden fans from
all over the world but he won a golden
globe a screen actors guild award and
three people's choice awards but being a
world famous actor with one of the most
recognizable voices on the planet was
not enough for him and since departing
the show he's not only continued his
hollywood career as a triple threat who
can also write direct and produce he's
managed to turn himself into a number
one new york times best-selling author
with 15 published books to his name he's
even working with 20th century fox and
disney to turn his first book in the
land of story series the wishing spell
into a major motion picture which he
himself is slated to helm
all of this would be amazing and
completely dazzle anybody at any age but
it becomes truly mind-boggling when you
consider he hasn't even reached his 30th
birthday yet
so please help me in welcoming the man
time magazine named as one of 2011's 100
most influential people the incredibly
talented chris colfer
can you just come with me everywhere and
and repeat that that was the plan i
thought if i write this well enough you
and i can go to comic cons together
which is exactly what i want to talk
about yeah i think that you and i share
maybe a vision on how story can be used
to impact people certainly hearing you
talk a lot about
as a kid sort of coming up with stories
and that being a big part of your
formative years is something i can very
much relate with yeah what is it about
storytelling
and comic con in particular that is
interesting to you oh gosh well i think
it's all a matter of fantasy isn't it
um for for me i i always loved um
superhero
novels and graphic novels and movies and
i loved uh uh stories about witches and
wizards because in those worlds you get
to be whatever you want to be
and i think sometimes there are so many
limitations in reality that those kinds
of stories can be very very encouraging
in a fantasy in a comic book a mouse can
can slay a dragon if it's courageous
enough
and that can be very very therapeutic
for those of us who haven't quite slayed
our dragons yet
that's really interesting as a kid
when did you start to feel ostracized i
know that you talked about being bullied
as a kid when did that kind of stuff
start oh gosh at birth i think my
nuclear family was very small but my
extended family was very large and
i was very much the runt of that family
so i always was kind of the person that
got made fun of the most because i was
the youngest uh
so yeah sorry started at home and then
and then uh things just got worse when i
when i went to school i uh i was a very
very eccentric kid i do not know how my
parents did it i i i think of some of
the things that i did and said and i i
don't know how i was not i was not
killed um uh but yeah and i i was i was
very different i um
growing up my my dad was really funny
and uh i remember trying so desperately
to be like him because i thought if i
learned to make people laugh i would be
on their good side instantly um and i
think i tried that a little too much i
think i i think i
alienated a lot of friendships when i
was early on in in like elementary
school because of that
was it like an andy kaufman kind of
humor approach or what was it about that
i'm not sure there was a style to it i
think i just any any for me anything was
fair game i just wanted to make people
laugh because
to me if you could make people laugh you
you were their friend instantly um and
then as i got older i think i that
interest sort of changed into
storytelling because i think as a young
person uh writing was the only way i
could get anyone to listen to me and or
or to hear me out without someone
wondering what was wrong with my with my
voice
um and so that became a very um a very
uh useful tool as i got older
so
uh your voice then which of course now
you become incredibly famous for and it
becomes a thing that just singles you
out so rapidly and you have such an
amazing singing voice oh thanks but that
was like a
a sore real sore spot for you oh
absolutely oh it was it was what i was
made fun of for the most uh growing up
it's actually gotten much deeper as i've
gotten older believe it or not uh but uh
uh that was the quickest way someone
could uh
could uh insult me um and they did i
grew up in a very very conservative town
where you know being different was not
accepted it was it was uh you know just
having a high-pitched voice was like you
were you were you were the outcast just
just for that um so i remember people
even adults even teachers would
would give me these looks when they
would when they'd hear me speak and um
and i i i was i was a very talented
singer um and i i could sing
uh i could sing like song defying
gravity like no one's business i could i
could sing all of uh the high parts and
phantom of the opera
but that meant i was useless to any
choir director or any uh drama drama
teacher
interesting so you weren't i always i
guess sort of imagined that your real
life was very glee-esque in that you
were seeing all through middle school
and high school it was i i and i
definitely did i i sang in the choir i i
quit choir because i i got tired of
standing um
i was in a lot of school plays i i was
never uh i was never the lead role or or
anything i was always i always had had
small roles in the in the background
um
but um
yeah i know i mean it was it's
interesting i think um
i think uh i hope i hope i'm not patting
myself on the back i think i i played
that character and glee very very well
and and people uh really do think i was
playing myself and and and although we
were experiencing um very very similar
things um uh i was very i was very
different from that character um i'm
much more cynical than that character
that's interesting in fact so i'm glad
you brought that up i heard you in an
interview somebody asked you if you were
a character from game of thrones who
would you be and you said
i want to say that i would be the mother
of dragons but i think i'm actually
cersei yeah what did you mean by that i
i'm sorry i just she's a woman who knows
what she wants and and she goes out and
she gets it i mean you know her methods
and her strategy is a little
questionable you know but i think that's
fair but i just i don't i love anyone
with with a drive and um i remember when
i was in senior year of my high school
uh i was chosen uh to put on my own show
it's called the senior show um and every
year one senior in the drama class got
selected to to basically put on whatever
they wanted and and usually they uh they
would do like snl type you know variety
sketch kind of kind of shows um but i
was like nope i'm writing a musical and
i uh gender reversed sweeney todd uh and
called it shirley todd
so i could be so i could be mrs lovett
so i was mr lovett um and uh because we
were all seniors no one wanted to do it
i ended up i ended up blackmailing all
of them to to be in it um and uh it was
a great show walk me through
how that drive and ambition has
manifested in your life
is that something you value in yourself
is it something that you're
skeptical of in yourself because you
when you answer that question and i
fully understand that it was a little
tongue-in-cheek but when you say that i
am you know i fear that i'm actually
cersei um is there a
part of you that is very cognizant that
there is a line that you can cross with
drive and ambition or
oh i think so i think i've never quite
gotten to the point where i was so
ambitious where i was i was causing harm
but um i i think i think ambition is is
uh so much of who i am um maybe to a
fault but never never to to the point
where i where i feel like i'm i'm
harming anyone or or anything um i think
growing up ambition and hopes and goals
and dreams that it was literally all i
had my family didn't have much money and
and i didn't i wasn't good-looking and
and i wasn't athletic um uh i i i could
act i could sing i could write but there
aren't many uh areas for you to
to to do that in when you're a young
person at least when i was a young
person there there weren't and so i
think my ambition sort of just became my
imaginary friend um it was a survival
tool it wasn't narcissism it was it was
survival
in that i can be somewhere else one day
i can be bigger than this i can go
places was that the sort of savior yeah
i think it was making a treasure map to
a life that was better than what i was
in currently i i that's that's what
really what it was for me um hence why i
also i identified so much with fantasy
and and superhero uh uh in greek
mythology and and um in in literature um
it was all part of a yeah i i i always
used uh fictitious peoples as my
examples of of getting somewhere
give me some examples who were people oh
gosh harry potter i guess that's a good
one um what is it you like about harry
potter oh god what oh my god it's like
harry potter is like my religion growing
up so it's a heart hard to hard answer
um
i don't know if it was actually him
because when i was reading harry potter
he he wasn't even he was my favorite
character by a long shot he i loved
ron hermione and professor mcgonagall
those are the characters that i love but
i think i think harry potter just in
general was um when i was a kid i i that
was just the first time i ever remember
enjoying reading um i had dyslexia i was
not a good reader i
i needed
reading glasses to read and i didn't
find that out much later in life so
reading physically hurt me and
it wasn't until i was in junior high
school when i i told the teacher that
and they said well you really should get
your eyes checked and i did and lo and
behold i was i was farsighted so harry
potter was was was a huge introduction
to literature for me um and uh it
inspired me to to be a storyteller
myself
so
i think it's interesting that you didn't
find harry potter to be the most
compelling character i find that a lot i
even find that sometimes when i'm
writing that making the main character
the most interesting the most intriguing
when they have so much sort of heavy
lifting to do can sometimes be difficult
whereas you can make a side character be
a little more flippant yes it can be a
bigger personality a very specific
flavor if you will um what was it about
iran or hermoine or a professor
mcgonagall that actually really drew you
in and how were you using what you were
reading as a way to deal with what you
were going through and so
let that hang in the air for a minute
because one thing that i heard you say
which i think is really interesting is i
was bullied pretty relentlessly but it
is not a daily thing for me and that if
people didn't ask me about it in
interviews i wouldn't even think about
it
that is so extraordinary that you've
been able to get out of that so part of
what i want to package up for the
listener
at home right now is like how do they
take
anything it doesn't even have to be a
fictional story but what were those
things that you got from those
characters even if it was just escapism
and then you were you leveraged that
breathing room to center yourself or
whatever it was
but how did you use that to not be
diminished by the bullying
hmm i was yeah um well i think it's it's
it's all about vulnerability um to tie
those two questions together i think uh
one of the reasons why audiences respond
to secondary characters rather than the
lead characters because the lead
character usually if it's written really
well uh you know shows it's hard their
heart on their sleeve um and uh you you
relate to them with vulnerability with
with their fear and with their with
their desires where uh the other
characters you're not quite as connected
to them so they can just be
um
they they're pure escapism they they are
they are
the people that you want to be because
because you're not quite as familiar
with with their with their challenges as
you are the main character
um but uh yeah and and to
go back to what you said about bullying
is
i'm in a weird place right now because i
played a bullied kid on national
television you know 20 million people a
week watched me get pushed into lockers
and and throwing on floors and you know
called
called a called queer called all
all these negative things um and i
experienced all that myself in in real
life
and uh i really like i i let people know
that that was you know one of the
reasons why they're
maybe connecting to my performance so
much was because it was coming from such
a real place and i let people know that
i was i was bullied horribly when i when
i was a kid i was bullied so badly in
middle school that my mom actually took
me out of school and started
homeschooling me just to because because
the harassment got so severe
um but i'm out of this weird place right
now where i feel like
i'm so not a victim anymore that that i
kind of i don't know maybe that's my ego
i don't know i think i think i get i get
tired of being associated with with
someone who who
uh is bullied because i i don't allow
that to happen anymore at all i'm proud
of kind of where i'm at at now because
because the minute i see someone who
tries to take advantage of me or or or
is isn't kind i i i have the uh the
option to walk away now which i didn't i
didn't when i was a kid um but i feel
like i have to a certain point i have to
stop talking about it because i've told
so many million i've told millions and
millions of kids around the world that
that is something you get to leave
behind um but because because of my
circumstances i i don't get to leave it
behind because i'm always asked about
about about it and it's a good thing to
talk about because it's still going on
but um at a certain point i feel like
i'm doing i'm doing the kids who look up
to me disservice when when when i when i
keep talking about it because it does
maybe for them does seem like
it doesn't it doesn't leave me does that
make sense it does definitely if these
were going to be the last words that you
ever spoke on the subject of healing
from being bullied what would you want
people to understand like what was your
process to close that chapter to feel
good about yourself and
i'm definitely putting words in your
mouth but to
be reborn in some way where that is is
not who you are anymore well i think
it's it's really just knowing that that
you you get to move on from it that that
that's the thing is is you you
look
adolescence is the toughest time in your
life i think because you are you have
you have no freedom but you have all the
responsibility you are
uh expected to make adult decisions but
you don't get the benefits of of of
being an adult and you are literally
trapped in an environment high school uh
unless you're homeschooled uh where you
are around you you have no control over
who you're around and and um
the the probably the one the most the
lesson or the the bridge that i've
crossed my life that has given me the
most relief is knowing that i i don't
have to be in any environment that i
that i do not want to be in um and
i i think that would that would that
would be the message that i'd give the
kids uh who are being bullied but also
also
look the world is is is is full of
like like the bullies believes
they they they they do go away at a
certain point but there are always be
people in your life that that uh you
don't you don't like that that are that
are mean that are that are rude and and
um i think sometimes when you when you
when you do go through a period of
harassment especially when you're young
you do learn how to how to
overcome that and how to um
maybe not have maybe not have peace with
um maybe some inner peace uh it's not
really outer peace because you can
really control control the world around
you but but you you do you did you learn
a lot you learn a lot of good
communication skills i think how do you
think about identity creation so
um i think a lot about the notion of
really deciding
what story you're going to tell yourself
about who you are
and that in that story whatever you're
repeating to yourself is going to become
your reality because you're going to see
that over and over and over um was
is that a tool that you use like i know
that people originally it was hard for
you to convince them that you could
write so they're like well you're
obviously a very talented actor you're
very talented singer
but can you really write
so
how in in when people are telling you
that you're not good enough which is
crazy to think there was ever a time
where people thought that about your
voice
but if
people were telling you about you that
about your voice you obviously overcame
that and then they're telling you that
about your writing but you overcome that
so how do you leverage or maybe it's not
narrative or self-narrative maybe it's
something else but how do you get the
courage to do things that people are
telling you you can't do that's
such a good question um
it's so interesting is i have been told
i i i can't do something
my entire life it's almost now it's like
a rite of passage for me when someone
tells me i can't do something i like
okay there's there's proof that i that i
can do it but it was never it was never
about my ability um
if i recall it was it was it was always
about
basically the world's just not ready for
you yet um uh you know i was told the
world's not ready for someone like you
to start singing you know you sound like
a girl no one wants to buy an album from
a guy who sounds like a girl the world's
not ready uh the world's not ready to
see you as an actor no one's gonna want
to go to a movie theater to see someone
like you act uh or see someone like you
on on tv uh people actually say this
to my face oh yeah i know it's crazy
it's crazy it it
i mean now now hindsight's always always
it's always a gift but but yeah no i
can't believe these people
i've never felt the need in my entire
life to tell someone they couldn't do
something sometimes i tell them well
that's going to be a challenge and
you've got to be ready for this this and
that but but i've never ever had the
need the desire to to nip someone's
dream in the in the bud what's your
initial emotional reaction when somebody
says that that i can't do something yeah
oh it's it's i'm kind of numb to it now
because because i i um
well and i have to be honest like like
one of the reasons why i've accomplished
so many things is because i've been very
lucky i've had um i've had many
opportunities that that were just
i just happened to be in the right place
at the right time um uh i didn't have to
believe that um yes i do but i do also
believe that i had to build on that i i
had to i had to create this the steps
that i took i had to form my own ladder
from you know i had to use that as as as
a stepping stone um and uh that that i
bet i think i can take credit for as as
using one experience uh
my glee experience using that to to go
into so many different um
ventures was was because i i
i
luckily uh
have i've always been i've been you know
the story of the grasshopper and the ant
i've always been the aunt so uh i'm i'm
very proud of myself for for creating
those tell people what that means uh
i've always been i've always been one to
work hard uh even even when uh when
a reward or or luck comes my way i've
always been one to try to
turn that blessing into a blueprint that
that's a really interesting take on you
and as much as i researched you before
you coming on there's a nuance in here
that i didn't pick up which i really uh
i'm super excited by in your story
nervous no no for people that don't know
the like the details of the grasshopper
and the ants a great little parable
about this grasshopper who's playing
around and like oh there's plenty of
time it's summer everything's abundant
it's all good and he's playing the
fiddle or something if i remember right
and all the ants are like preparing
preparing preparing and they're like
socking food away and carrying it back
and they're just working like dogs
through the whole summer and they keep
telling him like hey it isn't going to
be like this forever so you better get
ready winter is coming right yeah and so
it becomes like that ultimate parable
about
may k while the sun is shining right the
time where you think it's party time is
actually the time to buckle down and do
the work and dude writing your intro i
was like what the like the number
of things that you've done is
15 books
it's amazing it's wonderful man
and like hearing you one thing people
will not appreciate unless they actually
go watch the videos
you get heckled in the most beautiful
way whenever you go to speak like the
audience i've never seen audiences that
like reactive to
almost every word out of your mouth
elicits like this audible reaction from
people in the audience you've obviously
touched them with your writing you've
obviously touched them with your music
and you're acting but it's really
interesting so the the drive the being
the ant i think is is super super
interesting so when did you realize
you're the ant when did that crystallize
as a value for you
and
why
do you think that's important if you
think it's important for other people
well gosh i think it crystallized for me
um in
the midst of glee
because i was finally in in a position
that i had been told my entire life i i
someone like me would never be in this
position and the minute that i had that
position um and and people found out
that i was
a a gay actor playing a gay character um
i had an avalanche of of doubt not not
my own but from other people saying well
you know this is
i think when the first one the first
critiques that was ever written about me
was um you know he's great on the show
it's a shame that he'll never do
anything else again
just because based on other careers and
and other other actors that had that had
come and uh i think that really um put a
fear in me that they were correct um and
i i was so honored at the time being a
young person i was like no i i'm not
going to i'm not going to go gently into
that night you know i'm going to do
whatever i can uh to make sure that i
that i um always have i always have a
place at the table
um
and so yeah i guess i guess my a lot of
my drive used to come from from proving
people wrong and now i think it it it
does come from uh
wanting just to make the world an easier
place for for someone like me i think
that is that is what i'm driven by now
um second part of your question well
even more interesting you just said
something that i really want you to
invite people in to understand because i
think it's incredibly powerful
i get that you don't do it anymore maybe
not as much
take us back to
you're young you're being you know
hounded by people
intentionally or otherwise but they're
telling you you're not going to be able
to do it at one point i know you're
getting death threats
so
how do you use the chip on your shoulder
to prove people wrong which i'll call
sort of a dark energy
how do you use that to create something
so incredible i had had a bucket list
from the time that i was five um and
that i think that truly is the the
greatest blessing i think i've ever
received in my life is just having
a list of things i wanted to do to keep
me motivated and i don't know where it
came from i i don't know how i developed
it so young but um i
from
my earliest memory i i knew that i
wanted to
act and i knew that i wanted to write um
and uh and then
it was it was it was it made life a lot
easier i guess because i just i knew
what i knew what i what i wanted to do
and um i was very lucky because i had a
grandmother who
just believed in me to a fault like she
would tell me you're here you're here to
do this it's going to happen it's going
to happen and even when i would you
should talk about the writing or the act
both both she really made me think that
anything that i wanted to accomplish
could happen um and uh i've said this
before but i think that is the greatest
gift you can give a child even if even
if you don't think that that that it is
possible and many years later my
grandmother told me told me i i can't
believe you got it all done like i like
i was encouraging but i never thought
you would actually get it all done but
you did and i'm like well thanks i think
it was it was a it was the delusion that
that you installed in me that that made
it all work for me you've said that your
grandmother was your first and toughest
editor she was which i think is amazing
yeah do you think that like
i'll i'll ask a two-part question part
number one
are you actually glad when she didn't
think your story was good enough that
she would crumple it up throw it away
and so you can do better are you
actually glad that happened because that
had to be kind of hard oh it's traumatic
yeah so that's part one yeah and then
part two of the question would you do
the same
if you had kids oh my god oh well i
think the first part is uh yes i
i i now i am i am glad that uh my
grandmother did that uh because it
actually made you better uh i think it
did yeah i think it did and i i think um
it also
oh it's so weird and i've never put this
i've never put this two and two together
but i think that experience actually uh
made me
seek people who
seek honesty um in my career rather than
just someone who's gonna tell me
everything that i wanna hear
um because i know i know the honesty is
what is what gets you from a to b uh
the coddling doesn't um so yeah i think
i am glad that she that she did that um
as dramatic as it was uh in the time um
and i uh i would say no i don't think i
could i don't think i could ever do that
to to a kid and that's that's uh that's
one of the reasons why i
and i honestly don't want to have kids
is because i don't think i could i could
i could uh
uh i would be such a coddler i would
coddle them to death they would be
useless to the world
so um yeah so yes and no to this
question that is exactly how i feel
about having kids like i
i know it's the right answer even in my
own life it's been the things that were
super hard that actually like
there i have been in um
there have been times in my business
career where i've been involved with
people that i would just call straight
abusive yeah yeah and so it's like okay
this is
actually making me better it's horrible
and i do not like it but the gyrations
it makes me go through mentally
toughening up getting more strategic
having to sharpen my skill set all of
those things have made me better
but yet now as an employer or if i were
to have kids i wouldn't do that to
somebody else even though i know that
for some subset of the people it is the
right answer right right like i don't
think you get somebody
great
that
doesn't go through the hardship but my
problem is hardship destroys so many of
the people that it touches it does yeah
so i'm always so interested to meet
people like you that like on the other
side of it they're
they're so empowered yeah yeah i mean
some people one critique will just will
kill their creativity will kill it for
for forever um and uh that's another
reason why i'm glad my grandmother was
was harsh with me when i was younger
because i think i'm um
i'm i i can deal with criticism a little
bit better uh because because i i had it
when i was when i was very young um but
you know i'm the same way with business
it's interesting because you can you can
always hire a bad cop you can be the
good cop and you guys have you can
always work with a bad cop who's gonna
who's gonna do that for for people um
but when it comes to it comes to
families i feel like it says a whole
different thing that that's you you need
both parents to be everything all at
once and uh i would be the exact kind of
parent i would i would not give my kids
any freedom i'd put trackers on them i
would i would just i would be the worst
i'd make i'd make joan crawford look
like carol brady i i would be terrible
that's amazing that's at least you're
very self-aware so that's good
um i want to go back to drive and
ambition so you've accomplished a lot
and obviously it'd be very easy for
somebody that has your kind of resume
this young to just sort of tap out and
coast on that for a while
and then end up behind the eight ball
because they don't have any career
momentum how do you stay hungry
oh god um
it is tough it is because sometimes it's
you know
especially in the entertainment industry
the entertainment industry has a way of
building up and knocking it down and
building it back up it's such a roller
coaster of emotions and
and it's it's it's it's a business that
is based on on uh on creativity and
opinion so naturally that's a tough
environment to to be in um
i i know because i because i do go
through those periods where i think i'm
done i i i i did this fight is too hard
a few a few years ago we started
shopping around the land stories
adaptation to studios and i was very
very adamant that i uh i wanted to to to
direct this i i had written i had screen
written in the past and and worked with
some great directors and i had screen
written in the past and worked with
directors i that i felt did not capture
what i what i was going for at all and
that is such a
miserable place to be in to see
something
you've created uh you know being driven
in the wrong direction it's like
watching someone else parent your
children i i can imagine i can only
imagine um
and so i was very adamant that no if
this is this is going to come to life i
want to be the person to bring it to
life and i want to validate
all those images that that that the
readers and i have created together um
and um there was a period when we we
went to
so many different studios and ever
because it had done well every studio
wanted it they just didn't want to to
give me the the creative the creativity
and the control over it because i hadn't
done it before
um and at a certain point i i i it was
right when i'd come to terms with okay
you know this is
this is not going to turn into a movie i
i i could not live with this being a bad
movie and i i unfortunately just i don't
trust someone else to to make it a good
movie so i'm just going to come to terms
with this not being a movie and of
course that's when the phone rang
literally the next day um and uh
20th century fox uh uh uh gave me that
opportunity um so there are moments like
that where i i do i have many moments so
i just want to give up but i think you
have to go through those moments i think
you have to go through those moments
where you want to give up
um i think that's part of the process
tell me more why i don't know i would
love to tell you more but i'm not sure i
know
i said that i think i think that was
right what i said um i know i think that
especially when you're when when you're
in a creative position i think
the the depths are are just as important
as as the highs i i i think that that
just it just broadens your your spectrum
as a as as a creator and
um
you know i i i think it's it's those
moments of despair i think that really
made me a better writer because now i
can write
characters that that are in despair and
people who are reading it who are
actually in despair relate to it and and
and it helps them um so yeah i think
it's
ugh life eh
yeah i have a theory about what it is
that makes that worthwhile so the human
mind is
is
so naseem taleb has this idea of
becoming anti-fragile and the best
example of a system that's anti-fragile
is the immune system so something that
is weak obviously breaks easily
something that is tough or resilient
it can take a real beating and it will
last a long time before it breaks but
it's ultimately still defined by its
breaking point something that's
anti-fragile actually gets stronger the
more that it's assailed so the human
immune system is that right so when
you're born it's like everything makes
you sick and blah blah blah but every
time you get sick your immune system
learns about that invader and so the
next time it can thwart that invader and
that's how you get sick a lot less as
you get older so
that's an example of a system that by
attacking it you're actually making it
more powerful so i think the human
psyche
when done in sort of careful conditions
is the same now you can break it just
like you can get so sick you die
but if you are hit with these like um
stressors and there's a whole name for
it the the um hormesis so you get this
hermetic response right something is bad
but not so bad that it kills you so it
actually makes you better right so if it
doesn't kill you it makes you stronger
but it's like really on a biological
level so
when you're going through this despair
the bad news is that maybe something
like eight out of the ten
writers that encounter that it kills
them forever and they never go back to
it but the two like you that make it and
they push through they become a better
writer they're more relatable but
they're also more resilient and they
will have learned a trick a path
so one thing i think that's so
critically important is
when you hit a hardship and you overcome
it what you just learned your nervous
system learns at a deep limbic level is
that there was a path here even though i
couldn't see it in the beginning and so
the next time you hit an obstacle like
the next time you want to do a project
and they're like no no no no you're like
yeah i've been through this routine
before right and if i really believe it
and i stay true to it eventually like
people are gonna break
and i think that is it's a dangerous
game and it really is something that um
i often liken it to the inner cities the
inner cities destroy most of the people
that they touch but the occasional jay-z
comes out and they're just unstoppable
it's unfortunate for some people what
you know it
you you want to apply that that phrase
what doesn't kill you makes you stronger
to to to the mental side of things too
but sometimes what doesn't kill you
makes you suicidal um and it's really up
to you to
well is am i gonna let this kill me or
am i gonna let this motivate me and um
and i i sometimes when i hear people say
this i want to throw things at them so
i'm going to say it i'm going to say it
uh
very tongue-in-cheek but sometimes it
really is it's it's a choice um
it's not a choice i don't know sometimes
i don't think
you're you're sometimes i don't think
your your point of view or your your um
interpretation of something you're going
through can be a choice sometimes things
are just so tragic that that um
you you just have to feel whatever
you're feeling so it so it can work at
work itself out talk to me about your
going into why a novel so i know that
you go there because you've said that
that's it was so impactful for you
growing up and it's the space you'd love
to be in
is there anything that you're any kind
of relationship you're trying to forge
with your reader is there anything that
you want them to get out of it is it
pure escapism like how do you approach
it as a writer it really i think it
really is just escapism for me that was
what i enjoyed reading the most when i
was a kid um and uh it's it's
kind of like where where i'm how i'm
wired i'm kind of wired uh to live
part-time in reality part-time in a in a
fantasy world um
uh and uh i i think when i was a kid
like things i said earlier the fantasy
really impacted me more than any other
genre that i that i had read um and i i
think stimulating imagination is one of
the greatest things
one of our best lines of defense that we
can that we can give to the next
generation coming um because i i think
that's where you know if you inspire
people to be more compassionate and more
curious then i think the world is is on
the right track how do you do that how
do you inspire that curiosity
oh gosh
i don't know i don't know i i don't know
i i i try to write the kind of books
that i would like to read as as as a
young person i always joke that i just
write my reading level and it works out
um uh
i don't know i i i i think i i think
about the books that i read as a kid um
and not just the harry potter series but
every book by bruce coville and every
book by ava botson and and and just like
that that
like like that um prelude to to a book
that that is like
that's where i i think my soul lives is
my favorite part about writing the book
is is right before i actually sit down
and start writing and i'm just
daydreaming about it and i and i'm
curious about oh what is this where is
this world going to take me who am i
going to meet what am i going to learn
what kind of fun am i going to have uh
what's the end result going to be um and
i think every kid every time they pick
up a book
and they read the first chapter that's
kind of where they're at and i think if
more people lived there we would uh i
think the world would be a much better
place
like i said i think imagination is the
greatest tool in the whole world what is
it about imagination are you using that
in a einstein way of imagining a path
forward or is it just the relief from
your day-to-day life where you can
escape into a fantasy land what do you
mean by imagination i think i think from
imagination is is is uh
uh what you can create nothing and make
something from nothing is what is is
what you know nothing plus imagination
that equals something um and uh uh
that's also the the same definition of
magic that i use um in in my book so i
think imagination is is the most magical
thing we have in the real world
there's a notion in your books of
portals
of being sucked into the story world
that made me feel like i might be
getting an insight into you as a person
what is it about the notion of portals
that
uh was so enticing that you based so
much of your story around that oh
probably because i hate reality so much
god i mean i i think i just
i would if i had the choice of visiting
wonderland or neverland or hogwarts or
narnia i wouldn't a heartbeat like like
there would be there would be no
question in my mind um
uh
yeah
funny it's like a therapy session um
thanks i don't have to go this week
thank you appreciate it um but uh no i
think it's just i think it's just
escaping it i think it's going someplace
where
where you
you can you can be appreciated you can
be loved and
and um and you can have adventures and
and fun that you you just maybe aren't
available available to you just yet um
in whatever your situation is
yeah
so as you progress obviously there are a
lot of doors and things open to you
if you could only
ever
write
or sing
but not both so if you write you can
never sing again if you sing you can
never write again which which path would
you choose oh right that's so that's so
easy that's i mean i can write my
pajamas that's you know i i singing has
always terrified me strangely enough
interesting yeah i um the performance
element the performance element
absolutely yeah um uh yeah i i've always
had horrible stage fright even when i
was a kid and i used to just sing at um
inquire at my you know my grandma's
church or or something um uh yeah and i
i mean we did we did uh this huge glee
tour we did i think like
70 performances and in a two-month span
and whoa we did like i was it was insane
and i sang i sang live every single
uh performance because i was trying to
get that fear out of my system and uh it
didn't work it didn't work i was i was
just as terrified on the last night as i
was the first night interesting i don't
know
um
[Music]
i don't think about it very much um
because i just don't really think of it
as a
as a possibility i don't know why i
don't um
i i've always wanted to maybe do um
like maybe a cover album that that that
has some kind of charity uh aspect to it
where i you know i cover some songs and
the money goes to you know the the lgbt
center in la or or the trevor project or
or uh make a wish or something um i
would love to do that um but um it's
it's it's a it's a tough thing to
accomplish in uh in the music industry
so interesting when was the
first time that somebody told you that
your voice was just
extraordinary extraordinary
extraordinary they cannot fact i think
this right now are you serious yeah
thanks the first time i heard you
singing i was like what oh wow yeah so
thank you yeah um uh i mean no people
have been very kind over the years
letters and and tweets and
and and and whatnot um
i don't know this is this is very like
this is very deep this is we we've we've
scratched the surface of something here
yeah that's right but because like i
said i i i have been
i've been
told my whole life that i couldn't do
other things like writing and acting and
and not and for whatever reason i always
had a deaf ear to those things but like
for whatever reason i i accepted the the
critiques of of this of the singing i am
literally beside myself
so there are two gifts that i it's
interesting that i call them gifts talk
about therapy
um there are two talents that i
have hang-ups about because i want them
so desperately do not have them and as
much work as i've done around getting
rid of a fixed mindset these are the two
things that i think if you really want
it that bad like why don't you put in
any energy and the truthful answer is
because i don't think that i would get
good
um i would get better i recognize that
but i don't think i would ever get good
and that's singing and drawing
and i remember before i met my wife i
said
i can describe who she is and she will
either be able to sing or draw and of
course my wife can draw world-class
artists absolutely ridiculous
yeah yeah like that i so love that skill
set so
hearing you
sing and thinking okay wait a second
like
a you run a show you win a golden globe
you win a bunch of other awards
like arden fan base it's it is so
fascinating a glimpse into the human
condition to think that that's an area
that you're still like yeah i'm not sure
if i could do it yeah yeah it's when i
used to say i think i'm the only person
in the world who doesn't consider myself
a singer like when i when i'm introduced
places and people say oh well please
welcome sage
singer chris gulfer i'm always like what
all right oh all right cool i'll be i'll
take it i'll take it but
yeah so yeah it's really it's
interesting i should i should yeah
huh well maybe maybe maybe this this
interview will change that right maybe
i'll get it going yeah dude i mean
that's super super intriguing my wheels
are spinning um
where can people find out more about you
oh gosh um
america's most wanted uh no um nice
uh let's see uh the atlanta stories.com
is a good place uh a tale of magic.com
is a good place um
and uh yeah and then i guess just
hit me up on social media yeah and uh
and interviews like this nice perfect
before i ask my last question i actually
want to sneak in a little bonus here
what do you what is the
trait that you have that's made you so
successful
you know the first word came around was
was delusion
i'll take it i think yeah i think it's
delusion i think um like i said earlier
i think i um i owe that to my
grandmother she she truly made me
believe that every single one of my
goals every single one of my goals was
was was possible and i i believed her
and and and because she gave that to me
as a kid i think i
um i i that that's really what that was
the secret ingredient to my success i'm
good with that yeah all right what's the
impact that you want to have on the
world oh my gosh um i i think i just
want
i want to make uh
the real world reality
uh just a little bit more bearable for
for for people um and i i want to bring
a little a little magic to to uh to
people's lives
that's a great answer yeah
guys there are a few people that i think
have the breadth of creativity that he
has he's really doing extraordinary
things so if you only know him from tv
or you only know the books to
really look at his life across all the
things that he's doing and hopefully we
will very shortly see the results of him
as a producer and director
and screenwriter of his own translated
work to be pretty extraordinary so i
highly encourage you to give him a
follow check out his book series uh it's
all very very impressive if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care
chris that was amazing dude
thank you man scott but what is it
within my power it's
whether it's getting the proper sleep
rather it's learning your lines whether
it's researching the character rather
it's watching movies for reference
rather it's picking a subject matter a
person to study or
working out or eating healthy